## Laser speckle contrast imaging

This project is based on the observation by Lisa Richards et al at the
University of Texas who noted that a medical imaging technique called laser
speckle contrast imaging could be done with inexpensive and commonplace
hardware: specifically a laser pointer and a webcam.

- Richards, L. M., Kazmi, S. M. S., Davis, J. L., Olin, K. E., & Dunn, A. K.
  (2013). Low-cost laser speckle contrast imaging of blood flow using a webcam.
  Biomedical Optics Express, 4(10), 2269â€“2283.
  http://doi.org/10.1364/BOE.4.002269

The University of Texas team, led by Andrew Dunn, previously provided software
for the interpretation of captured images, but this software has been withdrawn
and was presumably not open source.

**Thus, I aim to develop open source tools to capture and analyse laser speckle
images.**

The University of Texas team used a raw Bayer pattern capture tool provided by
Logitech. This tool has since been withdrawn, and recent Logitech cameras do
not appear to support raw image capture.

However, I have noticed that the Microsoft Kinect provides raw video streams
for its two cameras. It also has an IR laser which (with a minor optical
modification: adding a diffuser) appears to be suitable for illumination.
Kinect devices for the obsolete Xbox 360 can be obtained very cheaply on the
second hand market.

The light absorption spectrum of skin falls steeply at the far end of the
visible spectrum and into the near infrared, thus an IR laser should provide
better images of blood flowing under the skin than visible light.

## Dependencies

- [libtiff](http://www.simplesystems.org/libtiff/)
- [libfreenect](https://github.com/OpenKinect/libfreenect)
- [Boost](http://www.boost.org/)

## License

Copyright (c) 2016 Tim Starling

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do
so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
